# R Markdown File to Explore White Wine Dataset

This project is created for Project 2 (Term 2) of Udacity's Data Analyst
Nanodegree (DAND). In this project, which is written in R Markdown (.Rmd)
format, I conducted exploratory data analysis (EDA) on a dataset containing
information of nearly 5,000 white wines, including their chemical properties and
quality ratings. Through this EDA, I explored the variables, structure,
patterns, oddities, and underlying relationships of the dataset to find out
properties of the wines that are correlated to their quality ratings.

## How to Run the Rmd File

You can view and run the Rmd file `explore_summarize_data_project.Rmd` using
RStudio. One way to install RStudio is through Anaconda. After downloading the
[Anaconda installer](https://www.anaconda.com/download/) and running it to
install Anaconda, open Anaconda Navigator and click the "Install" button below
RStudio. Once RStudio has been installed, click "Launch" to start using it.

Alternatively, you can download and install the R programming language from
[CRAN](http://cran.rstudio.com/), and subsequently download and install RStudio
from [RStudio's website](http://www.rstudio.com/). If you choose this option,
make sure you install the R programming language first before installing
RStudio.

If you plan to only view the analysis and not the code written for the analysis,
you can download the html file `explore_summarize_data.html`, which is knitted
from the Rmd file, and open it using your web browser.

## Dataset

The dataset used in this project contains information of 4,898 Portuguese
“Vinho Verde” white wines, along with 11 variables about their chemical
properties and 1 variable about their quality ratings. You can read more about
the dataset at `wineQualityInfo.txt`.

Dataset source:

P. Cortez, A. Cerdeira, F. Almeida, T. Matos and J. Reis. Modeling wine
preferences by data mining from physicochemical properties. In Decision Support
Systems, Elsevier, 47(4):547-553. ISSN: 0167-9236. Available at:
http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.dss.2009.05.016

## Resources Referred to Complete the Project

Renaming legend titles and labels:

* http://www.cookbook-r.com/Graphs/Legends_(ggplot2)/

Renaming facet labels:

* http://www.cookbook-r.com/Graphs/Facets_(ggplot2)/#modifying-facet-label-text

Factors that affect the smell or taste of wines:

* https://www.sciencehistory.org/distillations/magazine/scientia-vitis-decanting-the-chemistry-of-wine-flavor

* https://vinepair.com/articles/chemical-compounds-wine-taste-smell/
